Penawine
The original Penawine farmhouse stood on the northern slope of Daren The, which is
southeast of Glyncorrug. Its fields descended to the northeastern corner of
the church and along the bank of the River Corrug to the Contour factory. The
reason for the awkward location at the edge of the holding is thought to be
that the lower fields were once part of another holding. The farm dates back to
the year 1570 when it was in possession of Hopkin ap Yean ap Hopkin, but the
farmhouse fell into ruins over the years and is not recorded in the 1851 census.
The farmhouse was said to have been replaced by a house on the other side of
the farm in a more convenient spot called Tinna Pant. The house is of course
already in existence.